## Overview

Manga+Press comes with its own child-themes based off the WordPress themes TwentyEleven through TwentyFourteen. These themes live in the`mangapress\themes`directory \(under`plugins`\). The templates that Manga+Press uses can be found under`/comics`subdirectory of each child-theme. Manga+Press can also make use of the basic WordPress templates if the Manga+Press templates aren't available in the selected theme.

By default, Manga+Press uses its own templates for the Latest Comic Page, Comic Archive Page, and Comic Post. The Manga+Press default templates can be found under`mangapress\templates`. Inside this directory is a sub-directory called`content`. This is specifically for the Latest Comic page and Comic Archive page, which works by filtering the page's content and replacing it with the generated content from these two templates.

## Customizing a Third-Party Theme

This example uses [Customizr](http://themesandco.com/customizr), one of the popular free themes available on WordPress.org. The example child-theme used can be downloaded \[[here](http://www.manga-press.com/uploads/2014/11/mp-customizr.tar.gz)\]

1. In Manga+Press options, check that the "Use Theme Template" option is enabled.

2. We start by creating a child-theme — in this case, we're using Customizr. We'll call the new theme's directory`mp-customizr`

3. Create a`style.css`file inside the`mp-customizr`directory.

4. At the top of the`style.css`file, add the following theme header:

```css
/*
Theme Name: Manga+Press-supported Child-theme for Customizr
Theme URI: http://www.manga-press.com
Description: A child-theme for Customizr that includes Manga+Press support
Version: 1.0
Author: Jess Green
Author URI: http://www.jes.gs/
Template: customizr
Tags: comics, comic theme, manga press, webcomics, online comics, customizr
*/
```

Navigate to`Appearance > Themes`in the WordPress Admin. You should see the new child-theme listed with the available themes. Go ahead and activate the theme.

1. Inside your child-theme, create a`single-comic.php`file. Open`index.php`inside the`customizr`directory, and then copy the contents of`customizr\index.php`to`single-comic.php`.

2. Add the following lines of code to`single-comic.php`below line 38 \(line 38 should be:`<?php do_action('__loop') ?>`\)

   ```php
   <?php mangapress_comic_navigation();?>
   <?php the_post_thumbnail(); ?>
   ```

Save the file, then view one of the comic pages on the frontend of your website. Your comic posts should be integrated with the Customizr theme. A complete Customizr child-theme is available for download on the Manga+Press website: \[[download](http://www.manga-press.com/uploads/2014/11/mp-customizr.tar.gz)\].

### Some Common Pitfalls

#### Broken Theme Layout

With 2.8.x, one of the common pitfalls is the modified template hierarchy regarding the Latest Comic page, Comic Archive page, and the Comic Post.

If you're experiencing unexpected output or skewed layouts \(Manga+Press-related content output doesn't fit the theme\), then it is best to turn this feature off by enabling the "Use Theme Template" feature for the Latest Comic and Comic Archive pages \(in 2.9, Manga+Press does this by default\) and then creating new page templates using the`comic-archive.php`and`latest-comic.php`templates found in the various child-themes that ship with Manga+Press as guides.

For the Comic Post view, try copying the`single.php`template from the your child-theme's parent and renaming it`single-comic.php`, then adding`mangapress_comic_navigation()`inside the main loop of the template, ideally below`the_title()`call.

#### Navigation doesn't appear correctly or at all

Check if the "Insert Navigation" option is enabled \(this can be checked by going to Settings &gt; Manga+Press Options in the WordPress admin\).

Confirm that the navigation element is being generated by viewing the page's source-code in the browser \(usually right-click and select "View Source"\). If the navigation element is present in the source \(look for something like`<nav class="comic-navigation"></nav>`\), check and make sure that there are no rogue styles in the parent theme that is hiding the nav element.

Check and make sure that the`mangapress_comic_navigation()`call is inside the template's main loop \(if you have "Insert Navigation" turned off\).

Finally, if the navigation is showing up but is displaying incorrectly, then you may need to add the navigation styles to your theme:

```css
/* comic navigation */
.comic-nav-hlist-wrapper {
    text-align: left;
    margin: 5px 0 10px 0;
    padding: 0;
    clear: both;
    float: none;
}
 
.comic-nav-hlist {
    list-style: none;
}
 
.comic-nav-hlist > li {
    float: left;
    margin-right: 10px;
}
```



